guide: document matrix in dvc.yaml (#4761)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/user-guide/project-structure/dvcyaml-files.md

</admon>

## `matrix` stages

`matrix` allows you do to define multiple stages based on combinations of

> variables. A `matrix` element accepts one or more variables, each having
> possible list of values to iterate with. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
variables. A `matrix` element accepts one or more variables, each iterating
over a list of values. For example:
```

Minor style edits

```yaml
stages:
  train:
    matrix:
      model: [cnn, xgb]
      feature: [feature1, feature2, feature3]
    cmd: ./train.py --feature ${item.feature} ${item.model}
    outs:
      - ${item.model}.pkl
```

The values of variables become available in `item` dictionary, and you can
reference each variable in your stage definition. In above example, you can
access `item.model` and `item.feature`.

On `dvc repro`, dvc will expand the definition to multiple stages for each

> possible combination of the variables. In above example, dvc will create six

Reviewer: ```suggestion
possible combination of the variables. In the above example, dvc will create six
```

stages, one for each combination of `model` and`feature`. The name of the stages
will be generated by appending values of the variables to the stage name after a

> `@` as with foreach. For example, dvc will create following stages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`@` as with [foreach](#foreach). For example, dvc will create following stages:
```

- _train@cnn-feature1_
- _train@cnn-feature2_
- _train@cnn-feature3_
- _train@xgb-feature1_
- _train@xgb-feature2_
- _train@xgb-feature3_

Both individual matrix stages (eg: `train@cnn-feature1`) and group of matrix
stages (`train`) may be used in commands that accept stage targets.

The values in variables can be simple values such as string, integer, etc and
composite values such as list, dictionary, etc. For example:

```yaml
matrix:
  config:
    - n_estimators: 150
      max_depth: 20
    - n_estimators: 120
      max_depth: 30
  labels:
    - [label1, label2, label3]
    - [labelX, labelY, labelZ]
```

> When using a list or a dictionary, dvc will generate the name of stages based on
> variable name and id, which is based on index of the value. In above example,
> generated stages may look like `train@labels0-config0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using a list or a dictionary, dvc will generate the name of stages based on
variable name and the index of the value. In the above example,
generated stages may look like `train@labels0-config0`.
```

Minor style edits

Note that templating is supported inside `matrix` and in definition, so you can

> reference things defined in `vars` and from your imported file as usual.

Reviewer: What do you mean by `your imported file`? Should we also mention that you can reference params files? It would be great to have a more complete example here (show the `vars` section and/or `params.yaml` file).

Author: With `imported`,  I meant `vars` loaded from files. But yes, it is confusing. I'll just get rid of it, and replace with an example of `vars` from params.yaml. Others should be left to the readers/users I think.

</admon>

## `matrix` stages

`matrix` allows you do to define multiple stages based on combinations of
variables. A `matrix` element accepts one or more variables, each iterating over
a list of values. For example:

```yaml
stages:
  train:
    matrix:
      model: [cnn, xgb]
      feature: [feature1, feature2, feature3]
    cmd: ./train.py --feature ${item.feature} ${item.model}
    outs:
      - ${item.model}.pkl
```

You can reference each variable in your stage definition using the `item`
dictionary key. In the above example, you can access `item.model` and
`item.feature`.

On `dvc repro`, dvc will expand the definition to multiple stages for each
possible combination of the variables. In the above example, dvc will create six
stages, one for each combination of `model` and`feature`. The name of the stages
will be generated by appending values of the variables to the stage name after a
`@` as with [foreach](#foreach). For example, dvc will create the following
stages:

- _train@cnn-feature1_
- _train@cnn-feature2_
- _train@cnn-feature3_
- _train@xgb-feature1_
- _train@xgb-feature2_

> - _train@xgb-feature3_

Reviewer: Can we change to a code block like this just to save space? The bullet points take up a lot space.

```cli
$ dvc stage list
train@cnn-feature1  Outputs cnn.pkl
train@cnn-feature2  Outputs cnn.pkl
train@cnn-feature3  Outputs cnn.pkl
train@xgb-feature1  Outputs xgb.pkl
train@xgb-feature2  Outputs xgb.pkl
train@xgb-feature3  Outputs xgb.pkl
```

<img width="700" alt="Screenshot 2023-08-16 at 3 36 43 PM" src="https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/assets/2308172/a5515602-8e0e-4b19-b921-68b609b0e84e">
